6.0 English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com
Hello, this is 6 minute English from BBCLearningEnglish. I'm Neil
And I'm Beth
In this episode, we're talking about twins
Non-identical or fraternal twins
Come from two separate eggs and share half their genes
More uncommon are identical twins who come from a single fertilized egg
And share 100% of their genes
As humans, we're fascinated by twins
When people discover that someone's a twin
They start asking all kinds of questions
What question would you ask a twin, Neil?
Oh, probably quite an annoying one
Maybe, do you share each other's thoughts
Ooh, I might ask
If one of you is hurt, does the other one feel pain?
Interesting
Well, some common questions for twins include
Do you have psychic powers?
Have you ever swapped boyfriends?
And do you have the same dreams?
But according to a Nanjaga Tien
who presented a recent episode of BBC World Services
Crowd Science all about twins?
If you meet a twin and you ask them one of these questions
Don't be surprised if they roll their eyes at you
Ask a twin about psychic powers
And they might roll their eyes
A way of showing boredom or irritation
But nevertheless twins continue to capture our imagination
And in this episode we'll be finding out why
Using some useful new words and phrases
And remember, you'll find all the vocabulary for this episode
Along with the quiz and a worksheet on our website
BBCLearningEnglish.com
First, I have a question for you, Beth
These days twins are more common than you might think
In fact, one in every 42 babies is born a twin
But do you know which famous Hollywood star is a twin?
Is it A, Jennifer Lawrence, B, Angelina Jolie, or C, Scarlett Johansson?
Ooh, I don't know, I'm going to guess Scarlett Johansson
Well, we'll find out the answer at the end of the program
Professor Karen Dylan is the author of a book on twins
In American Literature and a twin herself
Here she discusses the good and bad sides of twin ship
With an Anjagatia for BBC World Service program, CrowdScience
Being a twin is an always plain sailing
Yeah, it is nice. There's never that fear
Because you're going through school together
You're sometimes in the same class together
You're making friends together
So all of those milestones of childhood
In some ways are made easier for twins
But then the older you get, the more you realize
How much people really think of you
As a twin, rather than as an individual
Twins go through many childhood milestones together
A milestone is an important stage of development
So a childhood milestone could be something like your first hit school
But being a twin isn't always plain sailing
An idiom meaning easy and problem free
Many twins find it hard to establish their own identity
As a separate and unique individual
Our fascination with twins also comes from the age-old nature
Verses nurture debate
How much of our lives is determined by nature
The genetics were born with
And how much by nurture the environment we grow up in
Because twins are so genetically similar
Differences between them tell scientists a lot
Here's presenter of BBC World Service program CrowdScience
An Anjagatia
Discussing this with Helena DeBress
A philosopher at Wellesley College Massachusetts
And that's right, another twin
Yeah, you hear about twins that will separate it at birth
Grop in different parts of the world
And they kind of have these eerily similar life courses
And you think gosh, how much choice have I had over the way that my life turned out
Absolutely, yeah, there's that really famous case of the gym twins
We're reunited at age 39
After being separated at birth and they just had so many similarities
It was crazy
They both married someone called Linda
And then divorced to someone called Betty
They both named their dog toy
It was ridiculous
The twins, Jim Lewis and Jim Springett
Were separated at birth
The phrase separated at birth
Can be used to describe two people with strong similarities
Although in this case, the twins were literally separated
And adopted by different parents at birth
When the gyms were reunited in the 1970s
Everyone was amazed at how similar their lives were
And and used the adjective Eerie
Meaning strange in a frightening mysterious way
And Helen says it was crazy
Using crazy to mean strange and fantastic
Yes, I think strange and mysterious and fantastic
Describe it being a twin quite well
Okay, Neil, it's time to reveal the answer to your question
I asked which Hollywood star is its twin
And you said, see, Scarlett, your handsome
I did
Which was the right answer
Yay
Let's recap the vocabulary we've learned
Starting with roll your eyes
To move your eyes upwards to show your board or annoyed
A milestone is a significant stage in the development of something
The idiom, it's not plain sailing
Describe difficult and problematic situations
The phrase separated at birth
Can describe two people who are unusually similar
It also refers to siblings who were adopted
By different parents at birth
And the adjective Eerie means strange in a frightening and mysterious way
And finally, if someone says it was crazy
They mean it was strange and fantastic
Once again, our six minutes are up
But remember, you can find worksheets, quizzes
And loads more resources to improve your English on our websites
BBCLearningEnglish.com
See you there soon
But for now, goodbye
Goodbye
6 million English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com